# Mongoose CubeMX integration

This is a step-by-step guide on how to bring up a production-grade Web UI
dashboard on STM32 Nucleo-N657X0-Q development board.

## Generate .ioc file

This directory already has an `.ioc` file so you can just open it in your CubeMX
and skip this step. However for those who want to create the project from scratch,
here are the steps:
- Open CubeMX, File / New project, type "STM32N657X0H3Q" in the part number, select
  it from the list, click "Start project" on the top right, choose "Secure domain only"
- Project Manager: Project name: "n657". Project location: path to this directory.
  Project strucure: "FSBL" only. Toolchain/IDE: pick ether Cmake or CubeIDE.
- RIF:
  - Peripherals (RISUP), enable "Privilege" on ETH1
  - Domains (RIMU): for ETH1, enable SECURE and PRIVILEGE
- MCU pinout view: set PG0, PG8, PG10 to GPIO_Output mode
- Pinout & Configuration / Security: Enable RIF and RNG for FSBL, click on RNG, check Activate
- Pinout & Configuration / Connectivity: enable USART1 for FSBL, mode asynchronous,
  configure pins PE5 and PE6 for USART1 function
- Pinout & Configuration / Connectivity: enable ETH1 for FSBL, mode RMII,
  pins PF4, PF5, PF7, PF10, PF11, PF12, PF13, PF14, PF15, PG11 for Ethernet function
- Pinout & Configuration / Connectivity: enable RNG and RIF for FSBL
- Pinout & Configuration / System Core: click on "GPIO", then click on each
  of the PG0, PG8, PG10 pins and select Pin Context Assignment / First Stage Boot Loader

## Generate project code
- Clone this repo to your workstation. Open the .ioc file in your CubeMX
- Click on "Project Manager"
  - If you're using CubeIDE, select "CubeIDE" in the toolchain/IDE dropdown
  - If you're using VSCode, select "Cmake" in the toolchain/IDE dropdown
- Click "Generate Code" button on the top right

This should generate project code in this directory the directory where .ioc file lives.
Open this directory in your IDE:
- If you're using VSCode, just open this directory in VSCode
- If you're using CubeIDE, File / Import / Exisging project into workspace, open this directory

Note: this .ioc file was generated by starting 

## Add `mongoose_config.h`

Add `Core/Inc/mongoose_config.h` file with the following contents:
```c
#define MG_ARCH MG_ARCH_CUBE
#define MG_ENABLE_PACKED_FS 1
#define MG_TLS MG_TLS_NONE
```

This file contains Mongoose settings. As you can see, there only a few settings
to set. Unlike other software, Mongoose does not provide you with dozens of
options you have no clue about.
However if you want to know about all settable build options, see https://mongoose.ws/docs/getting-started/build-options/

## Add Mongoose files to the build

This examples repo contains project for various architectures. Since Mongoose
is cross-platform, one of the architectures is "desktop" - that's your workstation:
Windows, Linux or Mac.

The networking functionality on all these architectures is absolutely identical.
Only the `mongoose_config.h` may be different.

Only the "desktop" project has the actual Mongoose files. On this step, we tell our IDE
to pick Mongoose files from the "desktop" project. This way we avoid duplication of identical
files for every single project.

- If you're using CubeIDE: Project / Properties / C/C++ General / Paths and Symols
  - Source Location /Link Folder / Advanced / Link to folder in the file system / Browse, choose `desktop/mongoose` directory
  - Includes / Add / Filesystem, choose `desktop/mongoose` directory
- If you're using VSCode, edit two sections in the top-level `CMakeLists.txt`:

```cmake
# Add sources to executable
target_sources(${CMAKE_PROJECT_NAME} PRIVATE
    # Add user sources here
    ../../desktop/mongoose/mongoose.c
    ../../desktop/mongoose/mongoose_glue.c
    ../../desktop/mongoose/mongoose_impl.c
    ../../desktop/mongoose/mongoose_fs.c
)

# Add include paths
target_include_directories(${CMAKE_PROJECT_NAME} PRIVATE
    # Add user defined include paths
    ../../desktop/mongoose/
)
```

## Configure .bin generation

Normally, IDEs generate .elf firmware file, cause it is easier for a debugger
to load it to a device. However, for the firmware OTA update, the .bin file
is required. The .bin file is the firmware image that gets copied to the
beginning of the microcontroller's flash memory and gets executed after the
system boot.

So, we need to tell the IDE to generate .bin firmware flash image file.

- If you're using CubeIDE, select Project / Properties / C/C++ build / Settings
  / MCU/MPU Post build outputs, enable "Convert to binary file (-O binary)"
- If you're using VSCode, add a section to the end of the top-level `CMakeLists.txt`:
```cmake
add_custom_command(TARGET ${PROJECT_NAME} POST_BUILD
  COMMAND ${CMAKE_OBJCOPY} -O binary
          ${PROJECT_NAME}.elf
          ${PROJECT_NAME}.bin
)
```

Open `.ld` linker script file and modify the MEMORY section:
```
MEMORY
{
  ROM    (xrw)    : ORIGIN = 0x34180400,   LENGTH = 287K
  RAM    (xrw)    : ORIGIN = 0x341C8000,   LENGTH = 224K
}
```

## Call Mongoose from main.c

Edit `Core/Src/main.c` and update the following snippets - notice the `USER CODE BEGIN` / `USER CODE END` placeholders. At the top of the file:

```c
/* USER CODE BEGIN Includes */
#include "mongoose_glue.h"
/* USER CODE END Includes */
```

Before the `main()` function:
```c
/* USER CODE BEGIN 0 */
int _write(int fd, unsigned char *buf, int len) {
  HAL_UART_Transmit(&huart1, buf, len, HAL_MAX_DELAY);
  return len;
}

void my_get_leds(struct leds *data) {
  data->led1 = !HAL_GPIO_ReadPin(GPIOG, GPIO_PIN_0);
  data->led2 = !HAL_GPIO_ReadPin(GPIOG, GPIO_PIN_8);
  data->led3 = !HAL_GPIO_ReadPin(GPIOG, GPIO_PIN_10);
}

void my_set_leds(struct leds *data) {
  HAL_GPIO_WritePin(GPIOG, GPIO_PIN_0, !data->led1);
  HAL_GPIO_WritePin(GPIOG, GPIO_PIN_8, !data->led2);
  HAL_GPIO_WritePin(GPIOG, GPIO_PIN_10, !data->led3);
}

// This blocks forever. Call it at the end of main(), or in a
// separate RTOS task. Give that task 8k stack space.
void run_mongoose(void) {
  mongoose_init();
  mongoose_set_http_handlers("leds", my_get_leds, my_set_leds);
  for (;;) {
    mongoose_poll();
  }
}
/* USER CODE END 0 */
```

Inside the `main()` function:
```c
/* USER CODE BEGIN WHILE */
HAL_GPIO_WritePin(GPIOG, GPIO_PIN_0, 1);
HAL_GPIO_WritePin(GPIOG, GPIO_PIN_8, 1);
HAL_GPIO_WritePin(GPIOG, GPIO_PIN_10, 1);
run_mongoose();
while (1)
{
  /* USER CODE END WHILE */
```

## Build, flash, test

Build the firmware. See [top level README](../../README.md#cubemx) on how to test it
